README.md, before:

# MediaWiki OAuth2 Client
MediaWiki implementation of the PHP League's [OAuth2 Client](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client), to allow MediaWiki to act as a client to any OAuth2 server. Currently maintained by [Schine GmbH](https://www.star-made.org/).

Requires MediaWiki 1.25+.

## Installation

Clone this repo into the extension directory. In the cloned directory, run 'git submodule update --init' to initialize the local configuration file and fetch all data from the OAuth2 client library.

Finally, run [composer](https://getcomposer.org/) in /vendors/oauth2-client to install the library dependency.

```
composer install
```

## Usage

Add the following line to your LocalSettings.php file.

```
wfLoadExtension( 'MW-OAuth2Client' );
```

Required settings to be added to LocalSettings.php

```
$wgOAuth2Client['client']['id']     = ''; // The client ID assigned to you by the provider
$wgOAuth2Client['client']['secret'] = ''; // The client secret assigned to you by the provider

$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['authorize_endpoint']     = ''; // Authorization URL
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['access_token_endpoint']  = ''; // Token URL
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['api_endpoint']           = ''; // URL to fetch user JSON
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['redirect_uri']           = ''; // URL for OAuth2 server to redirect to

$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['username'] = 'username'; // JSON path to username
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['email'] = 'email'; // JSON path to email
```

The JSON path should be set to point to the appropriate attributes in the JSON.

If the properties you want from your JSON object are nested, you can use periods.

For example, if user JSON is

```
{
    "user": {
        "username": "my username",
        "email": "my email"
    }
}
```

Then your JSON path configuration should be these

```
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['username'] = 'user.username'; // JSON path to username
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['email'] = 'user.email'; // JSON path to email
```

You can see [Json Helper Test case](./tests/phpunit/JsonHelperTest.php) for more.

The **Redirect URI** for your wiki should be:

```
http://your.wiki.domain/path/to/wiki/Special:OAuth2Client/callback
```

Optional further configuration

```
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['http_bearer_token'] = 'Bearer'; // Token to use in HTTP Authentication
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['query_parameter_token'] = 'auth_token'; // query parameter to use
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['scopes'] = 'read_citizen_info'; //Permissions

$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['service_name'] = 'Citizen Registry'; // the name of your service
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['service_login_link_text'] = 'Login with StarMade'; // the text of the login link

```

Optional Authorization Callback

Provide a callback and error message in the configuration that evaluates a conditional based upon the result of some business logic provided by the authorization endpoint response.

```
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['authz_callback'] = function($response) {
  if ($response['property']) {
    return true;
  } else {
    return false;
  }
}; // return true or false based on something from the authorization response
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['authz_failure_message'] // text of error message
```



### Popup Window
To use a popup window to login to the external OAuth2 server, copy the JS from modal.js to the [MediaWiki:Common.js](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Interface/JavaScript) page on your wiki.

### Extension page
https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:OAuth2_Client

## License
LGPL (GNU Lesser General Public License) http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html

Commit message:

Add an option to keep users logged in for longer.
Add new optional config option:
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['remember_me']

It controls whether the users should be logged in the way they would if they
checked the "Keep me logged in" checkbox in password-based authentication.
Basically, the cookies are then set a bit differently, as described in
https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:$wgCookieExpiration

The default is false, so the behaviour from before this patch is
preserved.

This is useful, as without it in, some setups the user will be logged in
only for a short period of time, which makes e.g. editing experience
pretty annoying.

README.md, after:

# MediaWiki OAuth2 Client
MediaWiki implementation of the PHP League's [OAuth2 Client](https://github.com/thephpleague/oauth2-client), to allow MediaWiki to act as a client to any OAuth2 server. Currently maintained by [Schine GmbH](https://www.star-made.org/).

Requires MediaWiki 1.25+.

## Installation

Clone this repo into the extension directory. In the cloned directory, run 'git submodule update --init' to initialize the local configuration file and fetch all data from the OAuth2 client library.

Finally, run [composer](https://getcomposer.org/) in /vendors/oauth2-client to install the library dependency.

```
composer install
```

## Usage

Add the following line to your LocalSettings.php file.

```
wfLoadExtension( 'MW-OAuth2Client' );
```

Required settings to be added to LocalSettings.php

```
$wgOAuth2Client['client']['id']     = ''; // The client ID assigned to you by the provider
$wgOAuth2Client['client']['secret'] = ''; // The client secret assigned to you by the provider

$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['authorize_endpoint']     = ''; // Authorization URL
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['access_token_endpoint']  = ''; // Token URL
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['api_endpoint']           = ''; // URL to fetch user JSON
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['redirect_uri']           = ''; // URL for OAuth2 server to redirect to

$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['username'] = 'username'; // JSON path to username
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['email'] = 'email'; // JSON path to email
```

The JSON path should be set to point to the appropriate attributes in the JSON.

If the properties you want from your JSON object are nested, you can use periods.

For example, if user JSON is

```
{
    "user": {
        "username": "my username",
        "email": "my email"
    }
}
```

Then your JSON path configuration should be these

```
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['username'] = 'user.username'; // JSON path to username
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['email'] = 'user.email'; // JSON path to email
```

You can see [Json Helper Test case](./tests/phpunit/JsonHelperTest.php) for more.

The **Redirect URI** for your wiki should be:

```
http://your.wiki.domain/path/to/wiki/Special:OAuth2Client/callback
```

Optional further configuration

```
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['http_bearer_token'] = 'Bearer'; // Token to use in HTTP Authentication
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['query_parameter_token'] = 'auth_token'; // query parameter to use
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['scopes'] = 'read_citizen_info'; //Permissions

$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['service_name'] = 'Citizen Registry'; // the name of your service
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['service_login_link_text'] = 'Login with StarMade'; // the text of the login link
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['remember_me'] = true; // Whether to keep user logged in for longer, similarly to what would happen if they checked "Keep me logged in" in password-based login. See https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:$wgCookieExpiration . Default: false.

```

Optional Authorization Callback

Provide a callback and error message in the configuration that evaluates a conditional based upon the result of some business logic provided by the authorization endpoint response.

```
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['authz_callback'] = function($response) {
  if ($response['property']) {
    return true;
  } else {
    return false;
  }
}; // return true or false based on something from the authorization response
$wgOAuth2Client['configuration']['authz_failure_message'] // text of error message
```



### Popup Window
To use a popup window to login to the external OAuth2 server, copy the JS from modal.js to the [MediaWiki:Common.js](https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Manual:Interface/JavaScript) page on your wiki.

### Extension page
https://www.mediawiki.org/wiki/Extension:OAuth2_Client

## License
LGPL (GNU Lesser General Public License) http://www.gnu.org/licenses/lgpl.html
